METHODS 
This is the creation of an amateur. Great care has been taken and it's as accurate as I can make it. 
But if you're a professional linguist or a serious student of linguistics, you shouldn't be doing your homework here. 
This is for the rest of us.
Etymonline is compiled from published sources and in some points from original material made available on the Internet. 
The first step was to draw up a list of English words out of an ordinary dictionary and seek their etymologies.
To compile an entry, I look up the word in my major sources: the Oxford English Dictionary (second edition), 
the Barnhart Dictionary of Etymology (1988), Weekley’s "Etymological Dictionary of Modern English" (1921), 
and Ernest Klein's "Comprehensive Etymological Dictionary of the English Language" (1971).
In most cases, all of these offered substantially the same derivations. 
My work was to merge them and put them into a consistent and accessible format. 
In some cases, one text offered information where others were silent. 
I’ve erred on the side of inclusion. In a few cases, they differed significantly in their derivations. 
I’ve tried to indicate that. In some cases they varied in their descriptions of the precise path a word took through Latin and French to English. 
I have not always indicated these differences.
The next step was to take the draft entry to my secondary shelf of sources: 
principally dictionaries of Old English, Middle English, Latin, Greek, French, and etymology dictionaries for French (Gamillscheg), 
German (Kluge), Greek (Beekes), and Latin (de Vaan). 
From these I attempted to flesh out the entries and give them some nuance and answer some questions 
I had about words that the big books did not notice.
For slang and colloquial usage, I consult the Kipfer/Chapman "Dictionary of American Slang" 
(which despite its title embraces many Britishisms), DARE, and Farmer. 
And for navigating the back alleys of English I had as a lantern the always delightful 
"Dictionary of Buckish Slang, University Wit and Pickpocket Eloquence." 
The modern definitions are largely from or adopted from the excellent "Century Dictionary" (1889-1902).
The list of books on the secondary shelf has changed somewhat since the work began. 
At the start, I made use of a couple of books which seemed authoritative but eventually revealed themselves to be 
whimsical or worse. One was so deadly it became the only book I’ve ever destroyed as a menace to society. 
I’ve tried to weed out the bad seeds they left in this work. It’s possible a few remain.
Originally I did not intend to include Proto-Indo-European roots, in part because there was such wide disagreement 
among the sources I consulted, in part because the whole field seems so speculative. 
But users wrote to me seeking them, so I’ve added them to the best of my ability, 
mainly based on the Watkins "American Heritage Dictionary of Indo-European Roots" 
but also by consulting Pokorny and such modern works as are available for Latin, Greek, and Germanic 
in the Leiden Indo-European Etymological Dictionary Series (see "sources").
With many words, root meanings or sense evolutions remain obscure.
I would be content to leave them as such, 
but readers are curious to know what guesses have been made (or dismissed) by the experts, 
as well as what facts have been settled.
So I’ve included such speculations that have appeared in the sources I consulted. 
They ought to be prefaced by "perhaps" in this text, even where the sources say "probably."